 New Gold
 IN NEVADA COUNTY




“Why do we make wine?
 For the pure love of the whole thing.”

    WORDS / CATHARINE BRAMKAMP



 W     hen gold miners stormed the Sierra Nevada Foothills,
       they brought picks, shovels, and pans—and they brought
 grape vines. A lot of grape vines.
                                                                       Alex Szabo of Szabo Winery, searched all over California to find
                                                                       just the right soil for his vineyard. “The structure and texture
                                                                       of the soils in the Northern Sierra Foothills is extremely rocky,
                                                                       well-draining, and slightly acidic. Historically, some of the first
 As gold was pulled from the earth, vines were planted. By the         vineyards in California were in the Sierra Foothills. The mountain
 1860s, the region produced roughly 20,000 gallons of wine             effect in this region is similar to the Napa Valley, with cool evening
 annually, which likely didn’t enhance gold production, but did help   breezes that emanate from the western slopes of the Sierras.
 ease the pain of an unsuccessful day. Prohibition slowed the wine     These cool breezes, in addition to the soil, make for exceptionally
 industry to a trickle, while gold mining came to a complete stop      high-quality and intensely flavored fruit.”
 in 1957. But, unlike mining, the Foothills wine industry has made
 a successful comeback. By 1978, the Sierra Foothills gained its       Rob Chrisman of Avanguardia Winery—Italian for avant-garde—
 official American Viticultural Area, or AVA, and is now home to       plays out Henry’s belief in the area’s experimental gestalt.
 twelve public wineries, all with different approaches to farming,     Avanguardia produces cutting edge wines that express a variety
 varietals, and blends.                                                of styles, from his Ampio red blend to Chrisman's signature
                                                                       white, Cristallo.
                                                                       All of Guy Lauterbach’s wines at Gray Pine are from estate grown
“Today, the North Sierra Foothills is probably the last
                                                                       grapes, and are what he likes to drink—that’s Cabernet Sauvignon,
 good quality wine grape growing region in California                  Cabernet Franc, and Petit Verdot.
 where the average aspiring farmer can afford to
 give it a go. It doesn't cost a small fortune to grow                 After admiring Naggiar’s undulating vineyards, and scenic lawn
                                                                       and pond, stay for the music, with popular cover bands performing
 wine here, which allows for a level of adventurism
                                                                       at the winery every weekend, from April through October.
 that you just can't find anywhere else.” Mark Henry,
 successful winemaker and owner of Montoliva                           At Truckee River Winery, try their Sierra Foothills Sauvignon
 Winery, pointed out.                                                  Blanc, a favorite at Truckee Family Wines. This white “perfectly
                                                                       captures the vibrant, crisp freshness of our local terroir, offering
                                                                       a refreshing experience that represents the quality and diversity
                                                                       of Nevada County's wine scene.”




 50 MUSE '26 | ISSUE 03
