   The North Star House
   Grass Valley, CA
   northstarhouse.org




                                                            M     ining engineer, Arthur DeWint Foote, moved to Nevada
                                                                 County to build a power plant for the North Star Mine.
                                                            When his wife, novelist and illustrator Mary Hallock Foote, joined
                                                            him, they decided a proper house was needed. The couple hired
                                                            Morgan to design a home that would blend with the environment
                                                            and impress their guests. Completed in 1905, the North Star
                                                            House was Morgan’s first significant residential project.

                                                            "It’s so intentionally integrated into the surroundings,” says North
                                                             Star House Artist in Residence, Jennifer McGuire. “Morgan's
                                                             stonework used tailings from the mine, and local Ponderosa pine
                                                             and cedar for the exposed woodwork to showcase the beauty
                                                             of the natural materials. Seeing it come back to life through
                                                             the dedication of this community has been moving."

                                                            The Foote’s lived in the house for over 60 years, until it was sold
                                                            to a private religious boarding school, and then passed from
                                                            institution to institution without upkeep. When the effort to
                                                            restore the house began in 2002, it was a shadow of its former
                                                            self. Vandalized, collapsing, and forgotten by many—but not all.

                                                            Prominent members of the community, like Howard and Peggy
                                                            Levine, brought attention and funding to the effort. Nevada
                                                            County Arts Council created the Peggy Levine Community
                                                            Service in the Arts award, and the couple were honored with
                                                            a Citizen Star by the City of Grass Valley, for their efforts.

                                                            Restored to near its original glory, the North Star House stands
                                                            as a testament to Morgan’s creativity—and was recently added
                                                            to the National Register of Historic Places by the National
                                                            Park Service.

                                                            Julia Morgan’s contributions in Nevada County extend beyond
                                                            just the beauty of the structures she designed. They are a
                                                            testament to what becomes possible when an artist embraces
                                                            their environment. Both the North Star House and the Twin Pines
OPPOSITE TOP, BOTTOM | TWIN PINES LAKE & SKI HOUSE          Lake & Ski House could have been monuments to dominance over
COURTESY OF CLEAR CREEK TAHOE                               nature; instead, they are conversations with nature that celebrate
TOP, MIDDLE, BOTTOM | THE NORTH STAR HOUSE — HALEY WRIGHT   their surroundings. Through them, Julia Morgan’s legacy endures.

                                                                  Architect Julia Morgan’s Legacy in Nevada County | MUSE '26 43
