                                                                      Coffee all day long
                                                                      For coffee, try Mountain Brew Coffee, an alpine european-inspired
                                                                      cafe run by two local female badass Truckee entrepreneurs
                                                                      (they also own the Zanders Bottleshop and founded Truckee Music
                                                                      Festival.) It’s tucked in at the west end of town at the Donner Lake
                                                                      exit. Newly opened, Truckee locals are buzzing about the Tastes
                                                                      Great Naked locally brewed coffee, the grab-and-go breakfast
                                                                      with New York City deli bagels flown in weekly, the salad menu,
                                                                      and our own Truckee Brewing Co on tap.

                                                                      Local DJs and live music
                                                                      Visit RMU for a locals' favorite burger and to enjoy local DJ Brandon
                                                                      (“GR8”) Greathouse. Alibi Ale House for their seasonally crafted
                                                                      beer, German fare, including mustache-shaped pretzels, and a full
                                                                      menu of events and shenanigans. Cottonwood features live music
                                                                      and the best deck views from a historic hilltop overlooking our
                                                                      downtown district.

                                                                      Places to work while on vacation
                                                                      Truckee Cultural District staff are on location at LIFT Workspace—
                                                                      a cowork, conference and wellness center. If you need to catch up
                                                                      on emails, join a board meeting, rent a phone pod, meet with a
                                                                      client, stretch in the gym, and have access to a free cup of coffee
                                                                      until the pot runs dry, we’ll see you there. LIFT is right next to
                                                                      Truckee Tahoe Airport, where you can grab lunch at a favorite
                                                                      local cafe, Red Truck, while checking out our Art at the Airport
                                                                      quarterly exhibitions, featuring Truckee Cultural District artists
                                                                      not always found in merchant row downtown galleries.

Staying up late                                                       Lodging where locals want to stay
After a day in the mountains at altitude, the downtown corridor       Martis Valley Lodge, where Best Western meets Ritz-Carlton.
typically closes shop by 11pm. But if you are a night owl, consider   Newly renovated, the bar and lounge are becoming a favorite
the historic Pastime Club, vibrating after hours with a sometimes     for relaxing après-anything. Enjoy dining at Trailhead Social with
rowdy atmosphere offering pool, shuffleboard, and live                fresh, locally sourced ingredients, small plates, and a curated
entertainment, plus open mic nights.                                  selection of regional wines and brews.

Breakfast in abundance
Head to Cornerstone Kitchen and Cornerstone Bakery on West
River Street, where you will feel well fed with a hearty farm-to-
table menu. Grab a coffee and an XL soul-comforting-everything
croissant, and don’t leave without the focaccia if you need to
pull a meal together later that night.
                                                                      TOP LEFT, ABOVE LEFT | DOWNTOWN TRUCKEE — CASEY GARROTTO
                                                                      TOP RIGHT | TRUCKEE ARTIST LOFTS — CASEY GARROTTO

                                                                                           Mountain Heart. Small-Town Soul | MUSE '26 33
