                           Nevada City-based ceramicist Miriam Morris has a rare
                           talent for making public spaces welcoming and full
                           of wonder. Longtime residents have watched Morris
                           transform Nevada City’s Calanan Park from a blighted,
                           half-dead hangout, to a lush community space that
                           serves as an entryway to the historic downtown.
                           Walking a thin line between guerrilla gardening and sanctioned
                           public art, Morris challenges conventions and city planning policy
                           with self-funded projects aimed at making Nevada City’s downtown
                           civic spaces—including Calanan Park, Robinson Plaza, and the post
                           office—more appealing to locals and visitors. In the process, she
                           has irritated city staff and gained many fierce local supporters.
                           Morris has more recently turned her attention to the Seven Hills
                           Business District, where civic leaders—including Nevada City’s
                           Chamber of Commerce and Public Arts Commission—have begun
                           to focus revitalization efforts. With a public art ordinance allowing
                           for permanent installations outside the historic district, Seven Hills
                           is a new playground for artists. Morris recently completed a nearly
                           50-foot-long tile mosaic on a retaining wall along Argall Way,
                           one of the district’s main thoroughfares. The mosaic, titled Native
                           Birds of Argall Way, joyously depicts native plants and animals,
                           and compliments Morris’ 2024 work on nearby planter boxes.
Guerilla gardener Miriam   This latest work cements Seven Hills’ reputation as an up-and-

Morris lends her talents   coming arts district, and may just signal a new era of cooperation
                           between City leaders and a beloved local artist—paving the way

to Seven Hills effort      for more art along the corridor that connects our cities in the
                           Grass Valley-Nevada City Cultural District.

WORDS / HEATHER HECKLER

                           Each spring, poetry blooms in Nevada County. From pubs
                           to church halls, from classrooms, cafes and galleries,
                           to libraries, schools and homes—every corner of our two
                           California Cultural Districts is alive with it. This April is
                           no exception, as National Poetry Month and Arts, Culture
                           & Creativity Month collide, and as Sierra Poetry Festival
                           celebrates its 10th anniversary.
                           Presented by Nevada County Arts Council since 2017, the Sierra
                           Poetry Festival brings poetry in from the margins, and creates a
                           centrifugal force around which our diverse communities gather.
                           This year, U.S. Poet Laureate Emeritus Robert Hass and Brenda
                           Hillman will be welcomed as keynote speakers, as well as Major
                           Jackson, about whom it has been said that “no American poet
                           wears his genius more lightly.”
                           Among others reading at Sierra Poetry Festival this year are
                           Sarah Ghazal Ali, winner of the 2025 California Book Award's
Celebrating a decade       Gold Medal in Poetry, and José Hernandez Diaz, whose collection,
                           Bad Mexican, Bad American, is “a demonstration of the unsettling
of poetry with Sierra      and rich world of having roots in more than one culture.”

Poetry Festival            Beginning on World Poetry Day and running through mid-May,
                           there is no shortage of ways to experience the transformative
WORDS / MICHAELYN LOGUE    power of poetry. This year’s mainstage event, on Saturday,
                           April 18 at The Center for the Arts in Grass Valley, is a culmination
& ELIZA TUDOR              of dozens of curated, un-curated, avant-garde, underground,
                           or just plain funky workshops, readings, and performances that
                           make up SPF Fringe.
                           From its grassroots beginnings to a gathering of national voices
                           and everything in between, Sierra Poetry Festival will continue
                           to evolve, drawing in more voices, and deepening its commitment
                           to a vision that has defined its first decade.

                                                             Culture Connection | MUSE '26 11
