Architect Julia
Morgan’s Legacy
IN NEVADA COUNTY




                                                                                Twin Pines Lake & Ski House
   WORDS / KYLE WINTERS                                                                         Truckee, CA
                                                                                       clearcreektahoe.com




                                                B    uilt in 1928 on the shores of Lake Tahoe, Twin Pines Lake & Ski
                                                     House stands apart from Julia Morgan's more grand designs,
                                                 and embodies a warmer character. The California Arts and Crafts
                                                 style of the house highlights Morgan’s ability to build something
                                                 that feels at home within a rugged landscape.
                                                 The house frames Lake Tahoe’s beauty for you, inviting you to
                                                 explore what makes the area so special. After a day of skiing or
                                                 a relentless mountain hike, it waits for you—welcoming you back
                                                 to warmth and comfort.


                                                “Twin Pines is where Clear Creek members come
                                                 to make the most of every season. Summer brings
                                                 private beach days, afternoons on the water, and
                                                 lakeside dining, while winter calls for slipping into
Julia Morgan’s name stands tall in California    warm ski boots. It’s a place that feels effortlessly
architectural tradition, but it may not be       welcoming,” says Milward BellBhatti, General
                                                 Manager of Clear Creek Tahoe.
familiar to most. Born in San Francisco in
1872, she graduated from U.C. Berkeley           Its walls and beams, made of local pine, are hewn to show their
with a B.S. in engineering where she was         unique pattern of knots and rings, while the foundations and
                                                 walkways, laid in natural stone, fit together organically. Morgan’s
often the only woman in a class of men.          eye for the land and seamless blending of man made and nature
The first woman licensed as an architect         helps this High Sierra retreat feel at home in the landscape.
in the state's history, and most famous
for her work on Hearst Castle, she also
brought her genius to Nevada County.

42 MUSE '26 | ISSUE 03
