In addition to big events, Nevada County's two California Cultural
Districts are offering day-to-day spaces that become stages for
Latinx culture. Truckee Cultural District’s launch party for last
year’s MUSE showcased the works of local artists featured in the
publication. Martin Caratachea, a young musician from a Truckee
Mexican-American family and former intern with Truckee Cultural
District, performed "Días Nublados" by Junior H on a twelve-
string classical guitar. A song that blends regional Mexican music
with contemporary themes, the performance was striking for its
ability to cross cultural and generational lines among the audience.
Enjoying the Spanish lyrics, the audience was engaged and
excited, with a growing appreciation for the diverse artistic
expression and Latinx culture beyond traditional celebrations.
These types of events, where Latinx artists are included,
demonstrate that Nevada County's inclusivity is no longer limited
to heritage festivals or once-a-year celebrations. It can now be
found in artistic, professional, and social spheres, reflecting
Nevada County's commitment to bridging community differences
through the arts. Local schools, nonprofits, and community
institutions are beginning to weave Latinx history and cultural
contributions into their programming.
One such example is Las Reinas, a friendly, scholarship-based
competition in which high school Latinas represent their family’s
home state in Mexico through traditional dance. Originating
at Truckee High School, and performed during the Mexican
Heritage Festival, the event blends cultural pride with academic
opportunity, while highlighting the growing presence of Latinx
traditions in public life.




For Latinx families from Mexico and
Central America specifically, these
events are a means of reconnecting
with traditions that may feel distant                                  Another example is the Latino Family Festival, held at Condon
                                                                       Park each September, announcing the start of Hispanic
or out of reach in a predominantly                                     Heritage Month while doubling as a back-to-school celebration
non-Latinx environment, helping                                        for residents of Grass Valley and the surrounding communities.
                                                                       A collaboration between Nevada County Superintendent of
to build a sense of kinship that is                                    Schools and PARTNERS Family Resources, the festival celebrates
                                                                       local Latinx culture and brings together community partners
often yearned for by many.                                             who provide much-needed services for local families. Open to
                                                                       all, attendees may encounter Mexican folkloric dance group
                                                                       Ballet Palomas y Gavilanes; Almaconvoz, led by singer-songwriter
                                                                       Sophya Ramirez; face painter Donya Miguel; and balloon artist
                                                                       Bernard Bradshaw. The event also features a raffle and
                                                                       opportunities to engage with local residents and community
                                                                       leaders in a safe space. Each year, Nevada County Arts Council
                                                                       provides free family portraits by local photographers in front
                                                                       of a wildly colorful banner that reads “¡Aquí pertenezco!”
                                                                       (“I belong here!” in English).
                                                                       While there is still more to be done to bring diverse voices into
                                                                       all aspects of public life, our two California Cultural Districts,
                                                                       east and west, are acknowledging the reality that Latinx culture
                                                                       is not an add-on or afterthought; it is part of the evolving identity
                                                                       of our region. In music, food, art, and storytelling, the community
                                                                       is incrementally building a more inclusive tomorrow, where
                                                                       cultural pride and unity are celebrated year-round.




                                                                                                              Latinx Culture | MUSE '26 55
