We can’t get away from fire any
more than we can get away from
death. We do get to choose how
we show up, though. I choose to
show up with love of place.
While the Camp Fire charged ahead at eighty football fields a
minute, I was finishing a grant proposal. My mom bought a trailer
for her horses and attempted to bribe them inside with treats.
The Jones Fire burnt the land of a colleague. She had woken to
Hi-Low sirens singing.
In June of 2021, lightning started the Dotta Fire in Plumas County.
I was there, itchy from a day of field work in the meadow. A wisp
of smoke appeared on the hillside, then a tree transformed into
a torch of flames. We evacuated as smoke jumpers drifted,               NEVADA COUNTY
blue sky above and golden grass below.
Two weeks later, on July 13, the Dixie Fire ignited. On August 4,
                                                                        WELCOMES ASTRO-
the River Fire broke out. It felt like the apocalypse. Smoke.
Planes. Everything is relative—the entire town of Greenville
                                                                        TOURISTS AS IT
simultaneously burned down. The Caldor Fire started 10 days
later. On August 18, the Dixie Fire became the first fire in recorded
                                                                        PROMOTES DARK
history to burn over the Sierra Crest. Caldor followed on August 30.    SKIES INITIATIVES
By the time of the Rices Fire, I was working for the Office of
                                                                        WORDS / KAYLA ANDERSON
Emergency Services. CalOES came to assess the damage,
and I rode in an official-looking vehicle down a dusty, hot road.
Homesteads with remnants of early summer gardens, and
children’s playsets next to burned out cars. I learned that             Astrotourism—traveling to rural places
disaster relief is tied to thresholds of loss, and one family’s
                                                                        to experience the cosmos—is on the rise.
grief isn’t enough.
                                                                        Nevada County, with its 985 square miles
We bought a house in town. It has Hardie Siding and a galvalume
                                                                        of remote and wild landscapes, offers one
fence. We have rock in zone zero, and a fire hydrant across the
street. The hardest part was finding fire insurance. One week           of the best destinations to stargaze, thanks
before we got the keys my dad was diagnosed with cancer.                to an absence of light pollution. On a clear
Three weeks later my dad died. Neighbors griped about the
                                                                        night at places like Donner Lake or Pioneer
Fair Plan. Insurance seemed trivial.
                                                                        Park, the Milky Way comes into clear view.
I have very few videos of my dad. In the very last one we are in
the garden. The clip starts beneath a canopy of hazel and maple,        To preserve our precious starry skies, local government
and swings to the sky, swooping to locate the distant drone of a        encourages the use of responsible lighting. You can support
CAL FIRE plane. The plane makes a beeline directly across the blue      this effort by minimizing night light usage, and understanding
expanse. The only words are my dad’s. He says, “That’s a spotter.”      your exterior lighting type. Installing low-level lighting with
                                                                        warm color LED bulbs, along with timers, motion sensors,
The thing about where we live is that fire is part of the experience.
                                                                        and directional shields, will reduce light pollution. In fact,
We can’t get away from fire any more than we can get away from
                                                                        in 2024–2025, the Town of Truckee offered a Dark Skies
death. We do get to choose how we show up, though. I choose to
                                                                        Lighting Rebate Program, giving residents and businesses
show up with love of place. I realize that I may be naïve to adore
                                                                        incentives to replace their polluting lights with downward-
Nevada City, with its rickety storefronts waiting to catch an ember,
                                                                        facing, energy-efficient alternatives.
but I would rather be here than anywhere.
                                                                        To further raise awareness, the Town of Truckee partnered
So, I pack my go-bag—with baby shoes, passports, and documents.
                                                                        with the Truckee Cultural District, Nevada County Arts Council,
I should add a good book, and an expensive bottle of whiskey—to
                                                                        and the City of Nevada City to launch the Don’t Be Afraid of the
take the edge off. Or maybe I have it all wrong, perhaps the whiskey
                                                                        Dark photo competition. In June and July of 2025, the districts
should be to celebrate and honor the courage it takes to live
                                                                        called upon local photographers to share their best images of
bravely on the brink of wildfire. Because this place is worth it.
                                                                        dark skies, with winners chosen by a community vote.
                                                                        Gazing up at the night sky is awe-inspiring—why not enjoy
           Scan the QR Code to access the 2025 Ready, Set, Go!          more of it in our own backyard?
           Handbook, a comprehensive guide to wildfire
           preparedness in Nevada County.                               ABOVE | "HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE" — DOUGLAS DEVORE

                                                                                                           Story of Place | MUSE '26 67
