              Golden Era Cocktail
              Bar & Lounge
              309 Broad Street, Nevada City
              goldeneralounge.com
              Gold ceilings, the best selection
              of mezcal North of Tijuana, roses on
              the table, fresh craft cocktails on the
              menu and live music on stage, it's cozy
              and classy and old and new all at once.
              A charming mix of old and new, locals
              and tourists, youngsters and old-timers.


              Gold Vibe Kombuchary
              12615 Charles Drive, Grass Valley
              goldvibe.com
              Gold Vibe is perched atop the Loma
              Rica industrial complex surrounded
              by warehouses. The interior is big,
              wide open and up for anything—murals
              on the walls, lots of in-house brewed
              Kombucha on tap, an old Burner bus
              in the corner and an entertainment
              calendar that ranges from indie
              bands to line dancing to yoga classes,
              electronic shows, punk rock and
              spoken word open mics.


              Moody's Bistro
              Bar & Beats
              10007 Bridge Street, Truckee
              moodysbistro.com
              A bustling higher-end restaurant,           “I do more than just burlesque but this is my
              bar and venue in downtown Truckee
              featuring full bands Thursday through        passion, and this is the type of show I want to
              Saturday. They lean towards jazz but         do,” said Unrest. “I feel like there are people
              it's not exclusive—this author stumbled      who think it is (nudity). It is art, and it is more
              upon Victoria Bailey and her players
              up from Los Angeles for the weekend,         about making people laugh about something.
              pumping out some top-shelf California        I wish more people knew it doesn’t have to be
              Americana seasoned with just enough          overtly sexual. Burlesque is satire.”
              pedal steel and washboard to keep
              things lively.                              Unrest added that the COVID pandemic, for whatever reason,
                                                          piqued the curiosities of potential burlesque fans.

              Wild Eye Pub                                “Before COVID I had places who were like, ‘we don’t do
                                                           burlesque.’ But as soon as COVID ended and we were in a
              535 Mill Street, Grass Valley
                                                           renaissance I had venues asking me to bring it. I have had
              wildeyepub.com
                                                           more venues ask me to bring burlesque.
              A charming spot for dinner and a show,
              whether inside or down by the creek.        “We were doing more cabaret style because burlesque
              Mostly local music, mostly a place for       has such a rich history. It didn’t start with thongs and pasties
              people who actually want a table to enjoy    but has been accepted by comedy and musicians and magic.
              their meal and their music, a haven for      It’s very exciting. When you see burlesque you go through
              those looking for some classic rock or       all these emotions, and you have no idea what is going
              blues or Irish strings without the elbow-    to happen because it is the art of the tease; the element
              jostling chaos of the downtown scenes.       of anticipation.”

34 | MUSE ISSUE 01 / 2024
