I think this metaphor can be applied to the interplay between
the creative elements of a community and the whole of that
community, whether a town, a county, or a state. Do we
see who and what make up the creative strings and the
instrumental housing of our community? How does the
whole echo and amplify its various parts?
Four years ago the results of a study of the nation’s nonprofit
arts sector, Arts & Economic Prosperity (AEP) documented


                                                                  Upstate
how much economic strength is accumulated through the
arts. Robert Lynch, then President and CEO of Americans
for the Arts, wrote at the time:
“AEP demonstrates that the arts provide both cultural and
 economic benefits. No longer do community leaders need           Creative
                                                                  Corps
 to feel that a choice must be made between arts funding and
 economic development. AEP proves that they can choose
 both. Nationally as well as locally, the arts mean business.”
We can make funding choices for art without undercutting
community. Faced with social challenges of division,
pandemic, fire and flood, let’s not forget to ask ourselves,
as a community, how we live with art and our artists,             “At the heart of the Creative Corps
and how could we live without them?                                are people—community members who
                                                                   play a vital role in determining what
Words Karen A Terrey                                               factors contribute to leading healthy,
Photos submitted
                                                                   fulfilling lives. We invite artists, arts
                                                                   and social service organizations,
                                                                   and civic leaders to embrace this
                                                                   opportunity. Share with us your vision,
                                                                   community by community.”
                                                                  Upstate California Creative Corps, is a newly
                                                                  launched grant program which places artists in
                                                                  service to communities across nineteen counties
                                                                  in Northern California—and get paid for it.
                                                                  The California Creative Corps is an outreach
                                                                  and engagement campaign designed to increase
                                                                  awareness around environmental issues such
                                                                  as water and energy conservation, climate
                                                                  mitigation, and emergency preparedness,
                                                                  relief, and recovery; as well as civic engagement,
                                                                  social justice and public health.
                                                                  In 2023, California Arts Council selected
                                                                  fourteen organizations to administer the
                                                                  Creative Corps across nine regions. For Upstate
                                                                  California, Nevada County Arts Council was
                                                                  selected to administer $3,384,043 in workforce
                                                                  development funds for artists, as well as for arts
                                                                  and social service organizations who will employ
                                                                  artists between spring 2023 and spring 2024.



                                                                  FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT
                                                                  UPSTATECREATIVECORPS.ORG

                                                                                            A Mural, A Podcast | 41
