       Rural Arts Center Unites
      a Community of Eccentrics
            North Columbia Schoolhouse Community Center
                and the San Juan Ridge Tapestry Project


S
     erving the isolated San Juan Ridge since 1982,                 is illustrated in intricate, embroidered scenes of residents
     the North Columbia Schoolhouse Cultural Center                 doing things like throwing pots, spinning wool, volunteering
     provides eclectic programming and serves as a                  for the fire department, and building the local school.
welcome gathering spot.
                                                                   A venture of astonishing scope, The Tapestry Project involved
You wouldn’t expect an embroidery show in a one room               243 people of all ages, some of whom had never threaded
schoolhouse twenty minutes outside town to draw a crowd.           a needle. It took over 15 years to complete.
Especially if it’s held on one of the year’s final warm Saturdays.
                                                                   “It started with the idea to have a project that would honor
Yet on such an afternoon last October, hundreds crowded the
                                                                    my community on The Ridge” said Stone, addressing the
pine-canopied grounds of the North Columbia Schoolhouse
                                                                    crowd at a presentation outside the Schoolhouse that day.
Cultural Center outside Nevada City to see the unveiling of
                                                                   “The plan was to make a tapestry that would last 1000 years.”
The San Juan Ridge Tapestry Project. Clearly, this was no
average embroidery show.                                            It was initially conceived as a permanent installation for the
                                                                    North Columbia Schoolhouse Cultural Center, before it got
Conceptualized by local weaver Marsha Stone, and based
                                                                    too big in scope for the little building to comfortably house.
on designs by artist Jennifer Rain Crosby, the project
                                                                    This original intention hints at the importance of the Cultural
consists of twelve large wall hangings that tell the story
                                                                    Center to Ridge residents.
of the back-to-the-land bohemians who settled on the
San Juan Ridge in the late 1960s and early 70s. Their history



58 | MUSE ISSUE 01 / 2024
