                                                                   Mira Clark, who works closely alongside Covert in ‘Uba Seo,
                                                                   emphasized the importance of preserving as many pieces
                                                                   of Nisenan Culture through these artworks as possible,
                                                                   to ensure that future visitors will understand the rich history
                                                                   the Tribe holds within their Ancestral Homelands.
                                                                   “(We) have refined the container to invite non-Native and
                                                                    non-Nisenan artists to work with the Tribe over the years,”
                                                                    Clark said. “The art created during VTA belongs to CHIRP.
                                                                    We are now in our 7th year of VTA and have a beautiful
                                                                    and extensive collection of art that we are all very proud of."
                                                                   Visibility counters the trials and tribulations experienced by
                                                                   Covert’s ancestors, but the art and community conversations
                                                                   that we are creating collectively are what keep Covert and
                                                                   the ‘Uba Seo staff going. She feels lucky that her family
                                                                   survived the movement that largely removed her Tribe
                                                                   from its homeland in Nevada County.

                                                                   “For whatever reason—luck or unluck—our
                                                                    family survived,” Covert said. “They survived
                                                                    the Indian Boarding Schools, they survived
                                                                    working in the f ields and being incredibly
                                                                    poor. Yet we all live here. Some of the oldest
                                                                    families in Nevada County know or knew my
                                                                    grandpa and they know we’re Native and they
                                                                    know we’re from here, but I just don’t think that
                                                                    concept itself could sink in with people, even
                                                                    when people said ‘We’re from this place.’

                                                                   “I think art is how we get to have these conversations without
                                                                    our defenses and ego and all this other stuff getting in the
                                                                    way. Nobody wants to go, ‘Hey Shelly, let’s talk about the
                                                                    California genocide today.’ But walking in and seeing all
                                                                    this art is a more gentle way to step into the conversation.
“Visibility Through Art (VTA) is an initiative created to engage   “Coming from complete erasure, now is the moment and
 public conversation through art. We work with both Native          I think people want to know more. A lot of times people
 and non-native artists, Tribal members and non-tribal              want to know about culture and traditions that unfortunately
 members. Navigating the topic of cultural appropriation            were broken and taken and lost forever but there are these
 is at the forefront of this work. When talking about this with     glimmering moments in which we get to preserve and
 one of my artist cousins, it was made very clear that Native       revitalize Nisenan Culture through art.
 artists have to fight to keep control of culturally relevant
 topics. The usurping of Native symbolism in clothing, art,        “I can’t believe we survived. You can see it in this art; working
 and design can be seen all around us and appropriation             with the community and working with each other. All we
 of Native soundscapes can be identified in modern music.           have is each other, especially in a little backwoods town like
 We therefore keep a continuous focus when guiding this             this. All we have is community and each other. I don’t care
 initiative, to be sure the art that is created is what we are      about people’s political or religious views. All I care about is
 asking for and is beneficial for the Tribe. We spend hours         people and if they need help, I'll do whatever I can. That’s
 in conversation with our artists each year and together we         what matters.”
 create art within a Tribally chosen theme. The art is then
 exhibited here at ‘Uba Seo and each piece becomes part
 of CHIRP’s growing art collection.”                               Words Scarlett Fletcher
                                                                   Photos Kat Alves




                                                                   'UBA SEO: NISENAN ARTS AND CULTURE
                                                                    225 BROAD STREET IN NEVADA CITY
                                                                    UBASEO.ORG

64 | MUSE ISSUE 01 / 2024
