 Osborn and Woods established a restaurant in what is still
 known as the Stone Hall, where a young Allan Haley played
 the piano during memorable brunches. When Haley returned
 from Yale with early success as a lawyer, he leased the
“garage” of the building to found the Nevada City Winery. A few
 years later, in 1989, when, due to tax issues, the IRS locked
 the doors of the larger building, Haley, along with Wyn and
 Steve Spiller, paid off the mortgage and established the
 building as a community trust. Envisioning an arts center, they
 hired Marty Dimmock to put that idea into action. Four years
 later, seeing that the building was successfully operating as
 they’d intended, they burned the mortgage. The trust holds
 the building in perpetuity as a community arts space.

By the late 1990s, the building needed serious
renovation. I once participated in a fundraiser
as rain from the leaky roof plonked into nearby
buckets. A few years later, the roof repaired,
I had the blessing of performing a one-woman
show, Martha, about modern dance pioneer                           Over in Grass Valley, what is now the Grass Valley Museum
Martha Graham, in what was then known as                           and Cultural Center (but known by locals as St. Joseph’s
                                                                   Cultural Center) began life as a convent in the late 1800s.
the Great Hall, but is now, after signif icant                     The lovely hall at “St Joe’s” hosts every kind of event—
updates to lights and sound, renamed, most                         dramatic, literary, cultural, and musical—and its many
appropriately, Osborn Woods Hall.                                  rooms provide studios for artists of all stripes. When in
                                                                   1995 Paul Emery launched his first production of Marat/Sade,
                                                                   Kate (Kika) Kane served as both director and producer;
                                                                   realizing she could not do both she tapped me to direct.
                                                                   Many of her good ideas were already in place, including
                                                                   using the various nooks and crannies on either side of the
                                                                   entrance as places where “lunatics” could scream at the
                                                                   arriving audience, an early dance into immersive theatre.




TOP / HISTORICAL ST. PATRICK'S CHURCH AND MT. SAINT MARY'S CONVENT
ABOVE / HISTORICAL MINERS FOUNDRY MACHINE SHOP
OPPOSITE / THE CENTER FOR THE ARTS AFTER RENOVATIONS, PHOTO COURTESY OF THE CENTER FOR THE ARTS


58 | MUSE ISSUE 02 / 2025
