        Creative Conversions:
   FROM CONVENTS AND CAR LOTS
      TO CULTURAL CENTERS




     In the mid 1800s, when miners flocked to California to pan in cold rivers and swing
     heavy picks into the earth in a feverish search for gold, they sought entertainment
         after their hard work and often found it in saloons and taverns—no place for
                                         respectable folk or the ladies.


So when Nevada City’s Bailey Hotel burned down in            While Foothill Theatre Company produced a dozen
1863, local citizens saw an opportunity. With the help       seasons in the Nevada Theatre, the company began its
of a fundraiser and a ball, they raised money to revamp      work in the large oddly-shaped granite building just down
the building as a theatre. Opening in 1865, the Nevada       the street. Now known as the Miners Foundry, the stone
Theatre, on Broad Street in Nevada City, is now the          structure on Spring Street began as a machine shop,
oldest operating theatre west of the Mississippi.            supplying equipment to the mines. But as the rush for gold
                                                             stalled, so did the need for smelting iron, and the building
When I arrived here, in 1994, and was cast as Gertrude       fell into disuse. When artists David Osborn and Charles
in The Foothill Theatre Company’s Hamlet, I reveled in       Woods arrived from the Bay Area, they saw its potential.
imagining some of those who’d trodden those same             In the early 1970s they purchased the building and created
boards: Mark Twain, Emma Nevada, suffragist Elizabeth        the American Victorian Museum, which housed their
Cady Stanton; and, later, Motley Crue and Joanna Newson      extensive Victoriana collection (and from which our local
(who, long before her spectacular rise to fame, played Amy   independent radio station, KVMR, whose first offices were
in my adaptation of Little Women in that same theatre).      in the Foundry, takes its call letters).
Many companies continue to use the Nevada Theatre,
including Community Asian Theatre of the Sierra,
Sierra Stages, Legacy Presents, and the newly formed
Lyric Rose Theatre Company.
                                                             ABOVE LEFT / HISTORICAL NEVADA THEATRE
                                                             ABOVE RIGHT / HISTORICAL STONE HOUSE


                                                                                                 Creative Conversions | 57
