         Culture Connection
                 Local Arts News for 2025
     Stay in the know on what’s happening in the arts. Read Culture Connection:
  GVNC Cultural District's bi-monthly newsletter, featuring the stories and people
  of Western Nevada County; and The Truckee Turntable: Truckee Cultural District
  and Truckee Arts Alliance’s monthly newsletter, featuring the myriad events and
  makers of our Eastern Nevada County communities. To subscribe, read or submit
                        a story, go to nevadacountyarts.org.



Putting the Punk Back in Poetry
Sierra Poetry Festival inaugurated a new Nevada County
Youth Poet Laureate program last year, and welcomed Joey
Henry into the role.
Raised in a creative household in St. Louis, surrounded by
the words and art of her father, Henry began writing short
stories in elementary school, and poetry in junior high.
At sixteen she moved to Nevada City to finish her last two
years of high school at Sierra Academy of Expeditionary
Learning (SAEL). A regular finalist for Poetry Out Loud in
Nevada County, her teacher, Marika Beck, and poet-in-
residence, Poet Laureate Emerita Kirsten Casey, both
recognized the power in Henry’s voice.
“SAEL’s creative and accepting atmosphere resulted in
 spectacular poetry by the students. Joey was an immediate
 standout, sharing poetry that was sophisticated and
 insightful. She is also kind and approachable, as well as
 a gentle poetic leader in class. I knew that Joey would be
 an excellent representative of youth in our community,
 as well as an exceptional writer and artistic role model,”
 reflects Kirsten Casey on Henry’s recent appointment.
 The role of poet laureate is an important one, and particularly   tenure by supporting teen open-mics, reading at local punk
 for Joey Henry, who is paving the way for local youth to          shows hosted at Nevada County's Madelyn Helling Library,
 share their voices in a space that is eager to hear them.         and incorporating teen focused zine making as part of her
“My teachers heard what I had to say and read what I was           community-based approach.
 writing, and encouraged me. If I hadn't received that support
 then I probably wouldn’t have done anything with it,” shares      “I think right now, especially for young people, uncensored
 Henry. “I now want to be that voice of encouragement for           speaking is so important. I love the punk scene because it’s
 other young people. It’s a big growth exercise, writing and        a place where people can truly be themselves and express
 sharing your thoughts and opinions with others. I want them        themselves. I love that there’s room for joy and anger and that
 to be excited about it, and to know it’s fun!”                     it’s good to be loud and messy. I think a lot of that mirrors
                                                                    itself in poetry and in creative expression generally. No matter
As an ambassador for poetry, the Youth Poet Laureate lends          what way you use poetry, it's going to be good for you and
agency and nurtures a valuation for poetry as a means of            for others. It’s important to make noise and speak, and yell,
creative expression. Joey Henry believes that nothing bad can       and write and I think it’s a good place to start.”
come from poetry, and has used this ethos to kick start her

                                                                   WORDS / MICHAELYN LOGUE



12 | MUSE ISSUE 02 / 2025
