                    s in th
                  n         e
              o
     Se as

      ur
                   GVNC Cultural
                     District
           o
                F


          Residents and visitors are inspired by our beautiful
     environment and in Nevada County we orient our lives around
       four distinct seasons, each one bringing a new way to see,
          explore, and appreciate our Sierra Foothills home.

                                                    WORDS / HEATHER HECKLER




Winter                                                                            Grass Valley’s
                                                                              Mill Street Promenade
From crisp clear blue skies to misty rains to full-on
snowstorms, winter in Nevada County brings low
                                                                                is a destination in
temperatures and the chance to cozy up in our bakeries,                            any season
coffee shops and bars with friends or a good book from
one of our many used and new bookstores.
Start with a hearty breakfast at South Pine Cafe, known for
its breakfast specialities like the Blackstone Benedict, tofu or
egg scrambles, and freshly squeezed juices. Add champagne
for a delicious Mimosa.
Stroll along the Mill Street Promenade and browse the
many unique shops along the way, including the Book Seller,
a local favorite since the 1970s. Book lovers will get lost
for hours in the nooks and crannies of Booktown Books,
featuring used and rare books, records, and ephemera from
14 independent booksellers over 4,000 square feet. Gamers
of all ages will love Grass Valley Games, which features
a large selection of games and comic books and serves
as a friendly gathering place.
For a taste of Nevada County’s Cornish heritage, stop
by Marshall’s Pasties for a savory handmade pasty just
like the ones miners took with them for a long day of
work underground.
Head over to Nevada City for an afternoon of sightseeing in
the historic district. Grab a richly delectable House Cacao at
Choquiero Cacao Cafe and visit the many unique shops on
Broad Street. Grab a cocktail at the National Bar, a historic
haunt serving up Victorian ambiance along with craft
cocktails before sitting down to a delicious meal at Lola,
the National Exchange Hotel’s fine-dining restaurant.

26 | MUSE ISSUE 02 / 2025
